Addressing comments by Kirsty on Security Limitations (#228)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke: draft-irtf-cfrg-hpke.md

honest recipient keys, as well as if the honest sender and honest
recipient keys are the same.

HPKE mitigates malleability problems (called benign malleability {{SECG}}) in prior
public key encryption standards based on ECIES by including all public keys in the
context of the key schedule.

HPKE does not provide forward secrecy with respect to recipient compromise.
In the Base and Auth modes, the secrecy properties are only expected to
hold if the recipient private key `skR` is not compromised at any point
in time. In the PSK and AuthPSK modes, the secrecy properties are
expected to hold if the recipient private key `skR` and the pre-shared key
are not both compromised at any point in time. See {{non-goals}} for more
details.

In the Auth mode, sender authentication is generally expected to hold if
the sender private key `skS` is not compromised at the time of message
reception. In the AuthPSK mode, sender authentication is generally
expected to hold if at the time of message reception, the sender private
key skS and the pre-shared key are not both compromised.

> Besides forward secrecy and key-compromise impersonation which are highlighted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides forward secrecy and key-compromise impersonation, which are highlighted
```

confidentiality guarantees of HPKE degrade significantly. In Base mode,
confidentiality guarantees can be lost completely; in the other modes, at least forward secrecy with
respect to sender compromise can be lost completely.

Such a situation could also lead to the reuse of the same KEM shared secret
and thus to the reuse of same key-nonce pairs for the AEAD.
The AEADs specified in this document are not secure
in case of nonce reuse. This attack vector is particularly relevant in
authenticated modes because knowledge of the ephemeral randomness is not
enough to derive `shared_secret` in these modes.

One way for applications to mitigate the impacts of bad ephemeral randomness is
to combine ephemeral randomness with a local long-term secret that has been
generated securely, as described in {{?RFC8937}}.

### Hiding Plaintext Length

AEAD ciphertexts produced by HPKE do not hide the plaintext length. Applications
requiring this level of privacy should use a suitable padding mechanism. See
{{?I-D.ietf-tls-esni}} and {{?RFC8467}} for examples of protocol-specific
padding policies.

### Key-Compromise Impersonation

> Forward secrecy - HPKE ciphertexts are not forward-secure. In the Base and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As discussed in {{kci}}, HPKE ciphertexts are not forward-secure. In the Base and
```

Auth modes, a given ciphertext can be decrypted if the recipient's private
decryption key is compromised. In the PSK and AuthPSK modes, a given
ciphertext can be decrypted if the recipient's private key and the
PSK are compromised.

> This is addressed in detail in {{kci}}. It is mentioned again here for completeness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

a message has been lost.  When an unrecoverable loss is detected, the application MUST discard
any associated HPKE context.

### Downgrade Prevention

HPKE assumes that the sender and recipient agree on what algorithms to use.
Depending on how these algorithms are negotiated, it may be possible for an
intermediary to force the two parties to use suboptimal algorithms.

### Replay Protection

The requirement that ciphertexts be presented to the `ContextR.Open()` function
in the same order they were generated by `ContextS.Seal()` provides a degree of
replay protection within a stream of ciphertexts resulting from a given context.
HPKE provides no other replay protection.

### Forward Secrecy

HPKE ciphertexts are not forward secret with respect to recipient compromise

> in any mode. This is because no ephemeral randomness but only long-term secrets
> are used on the side of the recipient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in any mode. This means that compromise of long-term recipient secrets allows
an attacker to decrypt past ciphertexts encrypted under said secret. This is because 
only long-term secrets are used on the side of the recipient.
```

HPKE ciphertexts are forward secret with respect to sender compromise in all
modes. This is because ephemeral randomness is used on the sender's side, which
is supposed to be erased directly after computation of the KEM shared secret and
ciphertext.

For DHKEM, HPKE is morally similar to specific one-way Noise handshake patterns,
which can be helpful to understand forward security and other properties {{Noise}}:

> Base mode is similar to Noise N, PSK mode to Npsk1, Auth mode to K, AuthPSK to Kpsk1.

Reviewer: I would omit this, as the prior paragraphs seem sufficient.

### Bad Ephemeral Randomness

If the randomness used for KEM encapsulation is bad, i.e. of low entropy or
compromised because of a broken or subverted random number generator, the
confidentiality guarantees of HPKE degrade significantly. In Base mode,

> can be lost completely; in the other modes, at least forward secrecy with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
confidentiality guarantees can be lost completely; in the other modes, at least forward secrecy with
```

respect to sender compromise can be lost completely.

Such a situation could also lead to the reuse of the same KEM shared secret
and thus to the reuse of same (key, nonce) pairs for the AEAD.

> The AEADs specified in this document keep no or only limited security guarantees

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AEADs specified in this document are not secure
```

> in case of nonce reuse. This is another attack vector against confidentiality
> in case of bad ephemeral randomness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in case of nonce reuse.
```

Author: I tried to rephrase to make clearer what I wanted to express: when nonce reuse is relevant. It's not relevant in Base mode, because there, everything is lost anyway.

One way for applications to mitigate the impacts of bad ephemeral randomness is
to combine ephemeral randomness with a local long-term secret that has been

> generated securely, as described in {{PQWireGuard}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generated securely, as described in {{?RFC8937}}.
```

Author: Great thanks! I was not aware of this RFC :)
